## Day 2

Before we begin, let's terminate the previous EC2 instance because we no longer
need it.

We will expand the basic version we have created yesterday and deploy it to
multiple servers.

Having multiple servers introduces complications. When users upload images they
currently upload to the EC2 instance. If we have more than one server then with
our current implementation we won't know if the user will access the instance
that has their photos. To address this we will be using the managed EFS service.

### EFS File System

Go to the EFS Console and create an EFS file system. The EFS file system needs
to be in the same VPC and subnet(s) as your EC2 instances. For our accounts we
only have a single VPC but something to be mindful of.

AWS Console > EFS > File Systems > Create > same vpc and regional.

Note the DNS Name once provisioned.

<This is a good time for a break>

Update the Security groups to allow our EC2 to access EFS.

From the EFS console View details of efs instance

- Network Tab > Manage
- remove existing security groups
- add ec2 security group made when creating our previous ec2 instance
- save.

Update existing EC2 security group

- new inbound rule
- NFS, with source from the same security group
  (e.g. sg-123 with NFS source: sg-123)

Launch a new EC2 instance with the Ubuntu 20.04 and SSH into the EC2 instance to
install the following packages.

Log into the instance via Cloud9

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nfs-common
```

Then mount the EFS file system.

```bash
sudo mkdir /efs
sudo mount -t nfs4 -o nfsvers=4.1,rsize=1048576,wsize=1048576,hard,timeo=600,retrans=2 <efs-dns-endpoint>:/ /efs
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /efs
```

If the second command hangs then you need to verify that the security groups are
correctly configured.

The above command allows us the EFS file system but we need to configure the
instance to keep this configuration on reboot. To do this we update `/etc/fstab`

```bash
sudo vi /etc/fstab
# or via nano
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```

```
<efs-dns-endpoint>:/  /efs    nfs    auto,rsize=1048576,wsize=1048576,hard,timeo=600,retrans=2    0       0
```

You can verify the above-mentioned configuration is working using the following
commands (run them several times).

We use `df -h` to check that efs is available.
We use `mount` to verify that efs is mounted.

```bash
# let's check what we've done works - we are looking for efs in the output.
df -h
mount
# unmount so we can verify efs is missing and wasn't always there
sudo umount /efs
df -h
mount
# mount to check our configuration returns
sudo mount /efs
df -h
mount
```

Once again we install packages for apache and php, skipping mysql server but we
still need the mysql client.

```bash
sudo apt-get install apache2 php mysql-client libapache2-mod-php php-mysql php-curl php-xml awscli
sudo service apache2 restart
```

Then we use the EFS file system to store our web application.

```bash
cd /efs
git clone https://et's.com/qyjohn/web-demo
cd web-demo
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data uploads
cd /var/www/html
sudo ln -s /efs/web-demo web-demo
```

### RDS instance

Go to the AWS Console, and search for RDS > Create database

- standard
- mysql / community
- db instance identifier: web-demo
- admin / password ... follow security best practice and don't use 'password'
- DB instance class (burstable) db.t3.micro
- Provisioned IOPS: 1000 iops
- VPC security group: use existing default

Security best practices tells us not to global access. This should be updated to
be more restrictive but for simplicity we'll keep the default configuration.

This will take some time to provision. Let's take a break here

<now is a good time to take a break>

Let's return to our EC2 instance via Cloud9. In the commands below make sure you
update your database.

```bash
mysql -h <rds-instance-endpoint> -u admin -p
mysql> CREATE DATABASE web_demo;
mysql> CREATE USER 'user.name'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'pass.word';
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON web_demo.* TO 'user.name'@'%';
mysql> quit
```

Just like yesterday, we import demo data in `web_demo.sql` to the web_demo
database on the RDS database:

```
cd /var/www/html/web-demo
mysql -h <rds-instance-endpoint> -u user.name -p web_demo < web_demo.sql
# if you didn't change the password above it is pass.word
```

Now, modify `config.php` with the new database server hostname, username,
password, and database name in our application configuration file.

```bash
sudo vi config.php
# or nano
sudo nano config.php
```

```php
// Database connection parameters
$db_hostname = "<rds-instance-endpoint>";
$db_database = "web_demo";
$db_username = "user.name";
$db_password = "pass.word";
```

We can test here to verify our RDS connection.

### AMI

Let's create an AMI from our running instance so we don't need to reconfigure
additional instances.

AWS Console > EC2 > Instances > select existing instance

- Actions > Image and templates > Create image
- name: web-demo > create

With our image created we can create another instance.

AWS Console > EC2 > Instances > Launch instance > My AMI

- update sg to previously configured
- use existing key pair

Let's log into the new instance and see what's there

- connect using `ssh ubuntu@ip`
- verify apache is running `sudo service apache2 status`
- efs is mounted `df -h` and `mount`

### ALB Load balancer

We now have more than once instance so we'll need a load balancer so we have
a single endpoint to access our environment.

AWS Console > EC2 > Load balancers > Create Load Balancer > ALB

- web-demo
- create new group > instances > select

This may take a few minutes to provision. Let's take a short break here.

### Verify

Are you able to view your web app via the ALB endpoint?
Are all your instances accessible via the ALB?
Are your instances still accessible via the internet? Should they be?

# Challenge

A challenge for you all, if you are up to it, is to continue to update your environment to include new functionality

Autoscaling the EC2 instances
S3 for files and/or asset storage
CDN to offload web server requests.
Some problems to consider

How can we speed up the deployment process?
How can we make this application more secure?
How do we know when there are performance issues?
